# Statistical Modeling and Automatous
This project is aimed to introduct the rudiments of Statistical Modeling and
Automatous implamentations discuted in Costa's Didactic Texts (aka CDTs).

To ease the data analysis and discussion we are going to use Python and Google
Colab in addition to github to store data eventually needed. The usage of
"ready" libraries is allowed except when it involves an important concept that
must the understanded.
 

## Part A
Read the 20 files provided, each to be treated as the attribute vector of
respective object, and perform visualizations as a sequence of values and as
histograms. Also obtain some statistics of the values in each file. From the
information thus obtained, try to identify groups between the files and propose
a possible respective model capable of generating new patterns with
characteristics similar to the originals. Compare views and statistics of the
original signals and those obtained by the proposed model, checking if they are
similar or not. View the two types of modeled signals as well as images in gray
levels of 200 X 200 pixels.

### Plotting 
1. Plotar um grafico de barra para cada arquivo
2. Plotar o histograma dos 20 arquivos
3. Verificar a distibuição através do gráfico (encontrar 2 grupos de distrubuição, uniforme e normal)
4. Usar as rotinas prontas para gerar novos arquivos de dados uniformes e normais
5. Colocar os arquivos lado a lado (os fornecidos e os sintetizados) no pdf

### Modeling 
* Grupo 1: Arquivos de 1 a 10 uniformemente distibuído uniformemente de -0.5 a 0.5
* Grupo 2: Arquivos de 11 a 20 com distribuição normal com mu = 0 e rho = 1

Com os modelos é possível gerar arquivos que obedecem a hipótese 1 e outro que
obedecem a hipótese2.


## Part B
Implement the automata presented in Figure 6 of CDT-22, obtaining views similar
to those in Figure 7. Combine the automata in Figure 6 so that obtain results
similar to those in Figure 10. Obtain geometric patterns such as those of
Figures 11 and 12. Obtain as distributions of numbers of 1 generated by the
automata of the Figure 6, in a way compatible with the results of Figure 13.




## References
<a id="1">[1]</a> 
Costa, L. F. (2020). 
Statistical Modeling
Costa's Didactic Texts, CDT-13.
